---
layout: article
title: News Stories (2021-26-04 to 2021-02-05)
tags: news-roundup
author:
  Quilvio Hernandez
aside:
    toc: true
---

## 2021-30-04  


## 2021-29-04
Biden address to joint session of Congress yesterday.  
Quotes from Biden and other parties:
"Our best future will not come from Washington schemes or socilaist dreams" (Tim Scott). It looks unlikely Republicans will support either of Biden's big proposals.  
"There is simply no reason why the blades for wind turbines can't be built in Pittsburgh instead of Beijing" (Biden). Biden hopes his proposals will increases American competitivesness with China and create jobs in manufacturing, EV, batteries, and renewable energy.  
"I think you should be able to become a billionaire or a millionaire. But pay your fair share." (Biden). Biden plans to fund his proposals with increases in the highest marginal tax rates, as well as higher corporate and captial gains tax rates. Private equity and hedge funds are lobbying against these measures. 

Infrastructure plan (2.3T):
- 689B (\~30%) for Building and Utilities
- 621B (\~27%) for Transportation
- 578B (\~25%) for Jobs and Innovation  
- 400B (\~17%) for In-Home Care

Families Plan (1.8T):
- 800B (\~44%) Tax Credits
    - Expansion of child, earned-income, and child and dependent care tax credits
    - ACA premium tax credit
- 511B (\~28%) Education
    - Completion and retention
    - Colleges and universities serving minority groups
    - Free community college (2 years)
    - Pell grants
    - Free universal preschool
- 495B (\~28%) Child and Family Support
    - Paid family and medical leave
    - Nutrition programs
    - Child care
- 80B (\~4%) IRS
    - Investments to collect more revenue.
Source: [NYT](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/04/28/upshot/biden-families-plan-american-rescue-infrastructure.html?referringSource=articleShare)

## 2021-28-04
Migrant workers prefer cryptocurrencies because they can avoid remittance service fee [Rest of World](https://restofworld.org/2021/crypto-remittances/) 

End of Fed's two-day meeting. No major policy changes. Will continue to keep interest rates low.

## 2021-27-04

CDC eases masks guidelines [Axios](https://www.axios.com/biden-cdc-coronavirus-guidance-masks-190a4299-05f1-4690-b4c5-d7c4e2c2f38f.html?utm_source=morning_brew)  

Tesla earnings: 101$ million in income from selling 10% of their Bitcoin.

## 2021-26-04

[The Crypto State? (City Journal)](https://www.city-journal.org/technological-developments-new-systems-of-governance)  
Maçães bring forth the idea that arguing whether US or China will reign supreme is irrelevent as we move towards a new system of governance. Technology has shifted power dynamics throughout history from horses to metal tools and nothing has chanaged today. Modern technologies such as Google, Facebook, and now Bitcoin have transformed how we think and interact. Bitcoin, and other cryptocurrencies, bypass the need for an intermediary. As Maçães notess "no large multinational corporation captures the data, no banks are involved, and no state authority can tamper with the record". He further identifies the identity shift between the physical and digital records. While physical documents enable surface-level identication such as nationality, age, etc., digital records provide far more information on an individual – which the Tech Titans have been profiting off for a decade.  

Bitcoin's ability to act indepentdently of the public or private sector allows for the emergence of a new era. While Bitcoin is one application of blockchain technology, Maçães purports "the ultimate promise of crypto lies less with digital currencies than with the replacement of other state structures." Money is a perfect starting point for developing proof-of-concept for this disruptive technology because–as we've seen time and time again–finance is the heart of the economy. If blockchain technology can replace the banking industry and become a viable distributed network then the idea of too "big to fail" vanishes into thin air because their importance is diminished (however, I still see investment banking as a profitable industry, but hopefully seperated from commercial banking).  

The second half of the article focuses on potential use cases such a betting market and insurance smart contracts. An interesting section discusses the consequences of crytographic keys and anonymized transaction on the tax industry. Mainly, that it becomes near imposible to collect taxes. Maçães sees China as the only nation-state capable of embracing the transition.  

Fun quote:  
"Bitcoin was intended as a response to the distempers of a global financial system that somehow manages to give private companies free rein to enrich themselves, while keeping public authorities ultimately in charge."

Facebook vs. Apple: Battle for Advertising (MorningBrew)  
Overview:
- Apple is releasing iOS 14.5 with a new feature called _App Tracking Transparency_ allowing users to take control of apps' ability to track them across the internet. 
- This is a huge disruptor to the entire advertising industry (estimated to be around 138.61 billion dollars).
- Not suprising to see Facebook is strongly opposed to the feature arguing it hurts small businesses.
- Interesting to see how this, and data privacy as a whole, will continue to play out

Waking Up Energized ([Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/productivity/comments/mf2yuq/5_simple_steps_to_wake_up_early_and_energized/) via MorningBrew)
1. Define your bedtime
2. Unstimulate the brain before bed (nighttime routine)
3. Improve the quality of your sleep
4. Shift your wake up time by incremental change
5. Energize yourself in the morning